nbdev-framework-example
================

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

## Getting Started

### PDM

> PDM, as described, is a modern Python package and dependency manager
> supporting the latest PEP standards. But it is more than a package
> manager. It boosts your development workflow in various aspects. The
> most significant benefit is it installs and manages packages in a
> similar way to npm that doesn’t need to create a virtualenv at all!
>
> — [PDM Documentation](https://pdm.fming.dev/latest/#introduction)

#### Installation

PDM should be installed as described in the [Installation
instructions](https://pdm.fming.dev/latest/#recommended-installation-method).

#### Initialization

Once PDM is installed and configured, the project should be initialized
by running the following command. This will ask a series of questions,
where the defaults are usually safe, and produce a file called
`pyproject.toml`.

``` bash
pdm init
```

### Data Version Control (DVC)

> DVC is built to make ML models shareable and reproducible. It is
> designed to handle large files, data sets, machine learning models,
> and metrics as well as code.
>
> — [DVC Website](https://dvc.org/)

#### Installation

As we are using PDM for managing python dependencies of the project, we
are able to add DVC by running `pdm add dvc`. This will add it to the
`pyproject.toml` file and install it into the environment.

#### Initialization

To add DVC to the project, we need to do a one time initialization by
running `pdm run dvc init`. This will generate a `.dvc` directory which
stores it’s [internal
files](https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/project-structure/internal-files)
as well as a files to DVC what files it should ignore.

### nbdev

> nbdev is a notebook-driven development platform. Simply write
> notebooks with lightweight markup and get high-quality documentation,
> tests, continuous integration, and packaging for free!
>
> [nbdev Website](https://nbdev.fast.ai/getting_started.html)

#### Installation

As we are using nbdev for creating documentation automatically, we are
able to add nbdev by running `pdm add nbdev`. This will add it to the
`pyproject.toml` file and install it into the environment.

#### Initialization

To add nbdev to the project, we need to do a one time initialzation by
running `pdm run nbdev_new`. This will create a `settings.ini` file with
project settings, a `.github/workflows` directory containing workflows
for package building and documentation deploying, and a `nbs` directory
containing jupyter notebooks for project files. These notebooks will be
deployed as documentation pages using [Quarto](https://quarto.org/)

#### Removing Packaging Feature (optional)

If you are using nbdev for documentation only without the package
creation feature you can follow these steps: 1. Remove library files

``` bash
rm setup.py .github/workflows/test.yaml nbs/00_core.ipynb
```

2.  Remove you library folder (this will be the `lib_path` field in
    `settings.ini`)

``` bash
rm -rf <lib_path>
```
